This is one rule in a sequence, and the rest of it is why this refusal is cheap
to hit twice. Each step below exists because skipping it cost something measured
on this checkout — the sequence, not the rules, is what nobody had written down.

  1. Enumerate before assuming you are alone.
       scripts/peer-sessions.sh — not ListAgents, which is per-profile and once
       reported 2 peers where 16 sessions existed across 3 profiles.
  2. Identify your own work POSITIVELY, by the Session-Id trailer or
       scripts/file-provenance.py — never by a commit range. A range is a proxy
       for authorship and stops being one the moment anyone else commits.
  3. Decide the COUPLING before you stage. A count and its member, a citation
       and its target, a gate and the change that falsifies it, commit together
       or not at all: every partial state is a red tree for every other session.
  4. Stage, read the diff, then commit by pathspec — in SEPARATE calls.
       git add <paths>
       git diff --cached --name-only   # the index is SHARED: are these all yours?
       git diff --cached               # read the content; that is the whole point
       git commit -m "..." -- <paths>
       SEPARATE is load-bearing, not layout. Chained with && the diff reaches you
       only AFTER the commit has run — a record of what happened, not a check on
       whether it should — and the transcript still reads as a review followed by
       a commit. && chains on EXIT STATUS while this check is you reading content,
       and `git diff` exits 0 whatever it prints, so && never stops anything.
       Measured: 21258b4b captured four files that way; 1b40dabd took a peer's
       whole ledger entry, the check having run and changed nothing.
       Staging is what satisfies the unreviewed-content check; the pathspec is
       not. And -m goes BEFORE --, or git reads it as a pathspec.
  5. Verify the INDEX, not the exit code. `git add` can fail on a contended
       lock, and a retry loop that exhausts looks identical to one that worked.
  6. If a commit captures another session's file: stop. Do not reset or amend.
       On a shared tree the repair destroys work the defect only mislabels.
       Report it instead.

Full sequence, with the measurements each step was paid for:
  docs/conventions/shared-checkout-commit-sequence.md
